---
layout: publication
title: Partial-to-Partial Shape Matching with Geometric Consistency
authors: [ve, maolin, me, marvin, dc, fb]
date: 2024-06-01 12:00:00 +0800
pin: false
math: true
mermaid: false
image:
  path: /assets/img/publications/partial-partial.png
  alt:  Geometrically consistent partial-to-partial shape matching
venue: CVPR 2024
arxiv: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.12209
github: https://github.com/vikiehm/geometrically-consistent-partial-partial-shape-matching
pdf: https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2024/papers/Ehm_Partial-to-Partial_Shape_Matching_with_Geometric_Consistency_CVPR_2024_paper.pdf
---

## Abstract

> Finding correspondences between 3D shapes is an important and long-standing problem in computer vision, graphics and beyond. A prominent challenge are partialto-partial shape matching settings, which occur when the shapes to match are only observed incompletely (e.g. from 3D scanning). Although partial-to-partial matching is a highly relevant setting in practice, it is rarely explored. Our work bridges the gap between existing (rather artificial) 3D full shape matching and partial-to-partial real-world settings by exploiting geometric consistency as a strong constraint. We demonstrate that it is indeed possible to solve this challenging problem in a variety of settings. For the first time, we achieve geometric consistency for partialto-partial matching, which is realized by a novel integer non-linear program formalism building on triangle product spaces, along with a new pruning algorithm based on linear integer programming. Further, we generate a new inter-class dataset for partial-to-partial shape-matching. We show that our method outperforms current SOTA methods on both an established intra-class dataset and our novel inter-class dataset. The code of this work is publicly available.


## Bibtex
```bibtex
@inproceedings{ehm2024partialpartial,
    title={Partial-to-Partial Shape Matching with Geometric Consistency},
    author     = {Ehm, Viktoria and Gao, Maolin and Roetzer, Paul and Eisenberger, Marvin and Bernard, Florian and Cremers, Daniel},
    booktitle = {IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
    year     = 2024
}
```
